---
title: Apple Certificates
description: Learn how to manage iOS certificates in Appcircle
tags: [signing identities, ios certificates, provisioning profiles]
sidebar_position: 1
---

import ContentRef from '@site/src/components/ContentRef';
import Screenshot from '@site/src/components/Screenshot';

# Apple Certificates Overview

Certificate files can be in `.p12` file format as a private-public key pair. There are 2 main types of iOS certificates:

**1. Apple Development:** Used for development and testing.

The development certificates allow deploying apps to the developer devices (connected physically for testing and debugging) during the actual development process on Xcode.

The common practice is to generate this certificate automatically on Xcode, although manual generation is also available. Binaries built with a development certificate cannot be distributed.

**2. Apple Distribution:** Used for submitting applications to the App Store, or for Ad Hoc and Enterprise distribution. (Refer to the provisioning profiles section for the differences between these distribution types.)

In most cases, you will be using a distribution certificate with the combination of a provisioning profile to build and distribute apps in Appcircle.

There is a one-to-many relationship between certificates and provisioning profiles, so you may have multiple provisioning profiles associated with a single certificate.

:::info

For app builds, signing identities are not mandatory. For example, you can use unsigned apps to run on the simulator or on third-party platforms that resign your app, such as AWS Device Farm.

However, unsigned binaries cannot be installed on actual devices; therefore they cannot be used in the Appcircle Testing Distribution.

:::

You can obtain your developer certificates and provisioning profiles from the Apple Developer Portal:

[https://developer.apple.com/support/code-signing/](https://developer.apple.com/support/code-signing/)


## Using Appcircle Signing Identity module for Apple Certificates

### Creating an Apple Certificate

With Appcircle’s advanced Signing Identity module, you can easily generate certificates without logging into your Apple Developer account and securely store these certificates in  `.P12` format within the Appcircle.

- To do this, navigate to the Apple Certificates section within the Signing Identity module. Then, using the Add New button, you can create a certificate.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5771-appCertMainPage.png' />

- In the opened window, continue by selecting the “Create an Apple Certificate” step.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5771-addCertModal.png' />

- Appcircle **requires** an **App Store Connect API Key** associated with your account to create a certificate. If the API Key is **not** added to your Appcircle organization, you **cannot** proceed with the certificate creation process. For more information, please refer to the [**App Store Connect API Key**](/account/my-organization/security/credentials/adding-an-app-store-connect-api-key) documentation.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5771-addCertAPIKeySelect.png' />

- After selecting the appropriate API Key, Appcircle requires a `CSR` (Certificate Signing Request) file to create an Apple certificate. With the option provided by Appcircle, you can select one created on Appcircle from the list. For more detailed information about the `CSR` creation process, please refer to the [**Generate Signing Request to Create Certificate**](/signing-identities/apple-certificates#creating-certificate-signing-request-file) section.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5963-csrSelectNew.png' />


### Create Certificate with CSR File

If you want to create a certificate, you can proceed by using the **Select Certificate Signing Request from List** option.

When this option is selected, all existing `CSR` files in Appcircle will be listed, prompting you to choose one. After selecting the relevant `CSR` file, the desired certificate type must be chosen. **Optionally**, a password can be specified, or the **Auto Generate Password** feature can be used to generate one automatically. If you do not have `CSR` file, please refer to the [**Generate Signing Request to Create Certificate**](/signing-identities/apple-certificates#creating-certificate-signing-request-file) section.

:::caution Generating Password

Adding a password during `P12` export is completely **optional**. If you do **not** specify a password, the `P12` file will be created without one. However, if you prefer for automatic password generation, be sure to record the password generated by Appcircle. Otherwise, you may **encounter** issues when using the provisioning file.

:::

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5771-selectCsr.png' />

### Creating Certificate Signing Request File

The **Certificate Signing Request (CSR)** file is required by **Apple** when creating a certificate. This file allows the user to generate a certificate, so it must be created in advance and provided as needed. Since this file can only be generated on a `macOS` operating system, it is unlikely to be created on other systems. Therefore, you can **easily** generate a `CSR` file using Appcircle’s **Generate Signing Request to Create Certificates** feature.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5771-csrCreate.png' />

By correctly filling in the required parameters such as **name**, **email**, and **country** you can generate this file without needing a `macOS` operating system.

:::caution Generating CSR File

It is **important** that the information provided is **accurate**. Any errors in these details may **prevent** Apple from allowing the certificate generation process.

:::

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5771-csrDetails.png' />

### Creating P12 File Without Mac

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/02-02-Add-iOS-Certificates.png' />

To generate your iOS certificates, simply fill in your details and Appcircle will provide a CSR (certificate signing request) which you can use on Apple Developer Portal to generate your signing certificate.

- Create a CSR File

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/02-07-Generate-iOS-Cert.png' />

- Download your CSR file
- Go to the Apple Developer Portal and select "Certificates, IDs & Profiles" from the left menu, then click on "Certificates."
  <Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/apple-addcertificate.png' />

- Select the type of certificate you want to create. If you want to distribute to TestFlight, Ad-hoc or AppStore, you should select Apple Distribution. If you're creating a certificate for local development environment, you should select Apple Development.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/apple-select-certificate-type.png' />

- Upload the CSR file you have created on Appcircle

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/apple-selectscr.png' />

- Download your generated CER file from the Apple Developer portal

- Upload the CER file to the signing identities module by clicking on the upload button next to the CSR file.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/ac-csr-list.png' />
<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/ac-createp12.png' />

- Your CSR will now be converted to a P12 file as an iOS signing certificate. (Please note that the P12 file comes with an empty password.)

### Uploading P12 Certificate

To upload your Apple Certificate, select "Upload Certificate Bundle (.p12)" button and upload your pre-obtained Apple Certificate file.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/02-02-Upload-iOS-Certificates.png' />

You can see a list of your created or uploaded certificates. Each certificate will display the certificate name, certificate type (development, ad-hoc, in-house, or app store distribution) along with expiration dates.

:::caution

If your password contains special characters such as `$` and `#`, your workflow may fail with `MAC verification failed during PKCS12 import` message. If you receive such an error, please export your P12 file by removing that symbol.

:::

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/02-08-CertificateList.png' />

:::info Apple Certificate Expiration Notifications

You will be notified when an Apple Certificate is about to expire. You can see the expiration notification in the [in-app notification window](/account/my-account/in-app-notifications) and optionally enable expiration [notifications](/account/my-organization/notifications) for Email, Slack, Microsoft Teams, etc.

**Standard Schedule**: Certificates already in the system 30+ days before expiration receive notifications at 30, 15, 7, 3, 1 days before expiration, plus expiring today.

**Late Upload**: Certificates uploaded with less than 30 days remaining before expiration get notifications starting from upload day, then continuing with the next applicable intervals from the standard schedule.

:::

### Manual Renew Certificate

Apple Certificates have a limited validity period and must be renewed before they expire to avoid interruptions in your build and distribution workflows. Appcircle allows you to manually renew an existing Apple Certificate directly from the **Signing Identities** module, so you can generate an up-to-date certificate without having to remove and reconfigure your current one.

- In order to manually renew Apple Certificate, navigate to the action button of related certificate and click the renew button.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/actionCert.png' />

:::info App Store Connect API Key

Renewing an Apple Certificate requires a valid **App Store Connect API Key** associated with your organization, just like creating a new certificate. If no API Key has been added to your Appcircle organization, the renewal process **cannot** be completed. For more information, please refer to the [**App Store Connect API Key**](/account/my-organization/security/credentials/adding-an-app-store-connect-api-key) documentation.

:::

:::warning CSR File

Please remember that the CSR file must be generated on Appcircle in order to successfully renew the certificate. You can find detailed instructions on how to generate the CSR file in this [document](/signing-identities/apple-certificates#creating-certificate-signing-request-file).

:::

:::warning Apple Certificate Generate Limit

There are limits on the number of certificates that can be generated on Apple. These limits are restricted to 3 for **Distribution** and 2 for **Development** types. However, these limits may vary for create operations performed via the API. If Apple does not allow a create or renew operation via the API, a notification will appear on Appcircle.

:::

- Appcircle requires certain inputs for the certificate you wish to renew. The purposes of these inputs are explained below.

   - **Revoke This Certificate Before Renew**: If you want to revoke the certificate you wish to renew on the Apple Developer Portal first, and then create a new certificate, you will need to enable this toggle.
   - **CSR File**: Apple will not allow a certificate to be generated without a CSR file. Therefore, a CSR file must be selected.
   - **Automatically Generate Password**: Appcircle will automatically generate a random password if this toggle is enabled.
   - **Password(Optional)**: When generating a certificate, you are prompted to set a password. This password is entirely optional, and the certificate will be generated without any issues even if you do not set one.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/certCsr.png' />

#### Renew Preview 

Before performing the Appcircle renewal process, this panel provides the user with a preview and displays all the necessary information.

 - **Existing Certificate**: This is the certificate currently in use. Once the renewal is confirmed, it will be permanently revoked and replaced by the new certificate. All associated provisioning profiles will be affected.
 - **Replacement Certificate**: This certificate will replace the existing one once the renewal is confirmed. The current certificate will be revoked and all associated provisioning profiles will be regenerated automatically.
 - **Affected Profiles Details**: The profiles listed below will be affected after the renew operation. This may cause build failures and errors in automatic re-sign processes.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/certPreview.png' />

:::warning Affected Provision, Build and Re-sign Profiles

During the Appcircle certificate renewal process, it recreates all provisioning profiles associated with the certificates. Additionally, it directly replaces the old certificates used in the re-sign and build profiles with the new ones.

:::

### Revoke Certificate

On Appcircle, you can revoke your certificates directly without having to go to the Apple Developer Portal. To do this, use the “Revoke” action found under the certificate's “Action” button.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/revokeCert.png' />

:::danger Revoke Certificate

Please keep in mind that if a certificate is revoked, this does not mean it will be automatically renewed. The revocation process is **irreversible** and **permanently deletes** the existing certificate from your Apple Developer account. Binaries signed with the revoked certificate will **no longer be valid** and will need to be signed with a new certificate. Before revoking your certificates, make absolutely sure that this **will not affect your workflows**.

:::


### Deleting a Certificate

To delete an Apple Certificate, click the ... button and select the **Delete** option.

:::info

Certificates deleted on **Appcircle** will only be removed from **Appcircle** and will not affect those on **Apple Developer** account.

:::

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE5651-AppleCertificates-Delete-Annotated2.png' />

## Sharing Apple Certificates

Root Organization users have the ability to share their Apple Certificates with Sub-Organization users.

Shared certificates can be used in Sub-Organizations just like locally created or uploaded certificates.

### How to Share Apple Certificates

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE8525-20.png' />

1. Navigate to the Apple Certificates Section  
   Go to the Signing Identity module and open the **Apple Certificates** section.

2. Open Certificate List  
   Locate the certificate you want to share from the list.

3. Select the Certificate  
   Click the **Share** icon under the Actions column for the selected certificate.

4. Configure Sharing Settings  
   In the Share panel:

- Enable **Share with all sub-organizations** to automatically share the certificate with all existing and newly created sub-organizations.
- Alternatively, manually select specific sub-organizations that should have access.

5. Save Sharing Configuration  
   Click **Share** to apply the configuration.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE8525-30.png' />

### Behavior in Sub-Organizations

- Shared certificates will be visible and selectable in Sub-Organizations as if they were their own.
- These certificates will be marked with a **Shared** tag on Root Organization and **Inherited** tag on Sub Organizations' certificate list.
- Sub-Organization users **cannot edit, rename, or delete** shared certificates.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE8525-24.png' />

:::tip
- When **Share with all sub-organizations** is enabled, the certificate will automatically be available in newly created sub-organizations as well. 
:::

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/BE8525-31.png' />

:::caution
- Any updates or deletions made in the Root Organization will directly affect all Sub-Organizations using the shared certificate.
:::