---
title: Monitoring
description: Instructions on migrating from a multi-node single drive MinIO configuration to a single-node single drive MinIO configuration
tags: [monitoring, logging, Grafana]
---

import Screenshot from '@site/src/components/Screenshot';
import SpacetechExampleInfo from '@site/docs/self-hosted-appcircle/configure-server/\_spacetech-example-info.mdx';

## Overview

This document provides instructions on how to access and use the monitoring system implemented for the self-hosted Appcircle server.

The monitoring system is designed to provide visibility into the application logs, enabling you to troubleshoot issues, monitor performance, and gain insights into the application's behavior.

The subsequent sections of this document will guide you through the process of accessing the Grafana web interface, navigating the log data.

:::info
To access and use the monitoring capabilities, you must be running Appcircle server version `3.15.0` or later.
:::

## Accessing to Grafana Web UI

<SpacetechExampleInfo />

:::info
We will use `.appcircle.spacetech.io` example URLs below. You should change this domain with your own Appcircle domain.
:::

The Grafana monitoring UI is accessible by default through the `monitor` subdomain. In our example, the full domain URL is `monitor.appcircle.spacetech.com`.

:::caution
You can face SSL errors while connecting to the `monitor` URL like `ERR_CERT_COMMON_NAME_INVALID`. That error indicates the SSL certificate of the Appcircle server doesn't include the `monitor` subdomain.

The recommended solution is to update the SSL certificate of the Appcircle server.
:::

Upon navigating to the Grafana login page, you should authenticate using the initial username and password specified in the global.yaml file of your project. To verify these credentials, you can execute the following command on the Appcircle server:

Change directory to Appcircle server.

```bash
cd appcircle-server
```

Print the Keycloak authentication credentials.

```bash
cat projects/spacetech/global.yaml | grep -A 5 "keycloak"
```

The example output below displays the initialUsername and initialPassword values. These credentials serve as your login information for the Grafana monitoring interface.

```yaml
keycloak:
  initialUsername: admin@spacetech.com
  initialPassword: SuperSecretPassword
```

## Filtering Logs

After successfully authenticating with the Grafana user interface, you can commence filtering and exploring log data by navigating to the "Explore" menu.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/be-2111-1-explore.png' />

To filter and view logs for a specific service, follow the steps outlined below. For instance, if you wish to examine the log entries pertaining to the `build` service:

1. Select `container` as label from `1`. box.
2. Select `spacetech-build-1` as value from `2`. box.
3. Select the date time you want to query from `3`. box.
4. After you set the query parameters, hit "Run query" button to see the logs.
5. Additionally, if you want to "follow" the logs in realtime, you can hit "Live" button.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/be-2111-2-filter-logs.png' />

Upon executing the query by clicking the "Run query" button, the log entries generated by the `spacetech-build-1` service will be displayed.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/be-2111-3-view-logs.png' />

## Downloading and Sharing the Logs

If you want to download and share the logs after you [filter](#filtering-logs), you can the same UI.

1. Open the "Query inspector" menu from `1`. box.
2. Head to the "Data" tab from `2`. box.
3. Press the "Download logs" button to download the filtered logs.

<Screenshot url='https://cdn.appcircle.io/docs/assets/be-2111-4-download-logs.png' />
